README.md, before:

# Ansible Role: SonarQube

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/ansible-role-sonar.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/ansible-role-sonar)

An Ansible Role that installs [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) on RedHat/CentOS and Debian/Ubuntu Linux servers.

## Requirements

Requires the `unzip` utility to be installed on the server. Also, different SonarQube versions require different minimum versions of Java:

  - SonarQube 5.0-5.5 requires Java 1.7+
  - SonarQube 5.6+ requires Java 1.8+

Finally, recent versions of SonarQube also require MySQL 5.6 or later.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values:

    workspace: /root

Directory where downloaded files will be temporarily stored.

    sonar_download_validate_certs: true

Controls whether to validate certificates when downloading SonarQube.

    sonar_download_url: http://dist.sonar.codehaus.org/sonarqube-4.5.4.zip
    sonar_version_directory: sonarqube-4.5.4

The URL from which SonarQube will be downloaded, and the resulting directory name (should match the download archive, without the archive extension).

    sonar_web_context: ''

The value of `sonar.web.context`. Setting this to something like `/sonar` allows you to set the context where Sonar can be accessed (e.g. `hostname/sonar` instead of `hostname`).

    sonar_mysql_username: sonar
    sonar_mysql_password: sonar
    
    sonar_mysql_host: localhost
    sonar_mysql_port: "3306"
    sonar_mysql_database: sonar
    
    sonar_mysql_allowed_hosts:
      - 127.0.0.1
      - ::1
      - localhost

JDBC settings for a connection to a MySQL database. Defaults presume the database resides on localhost and is only accessible on the SonarQube server itself.

## Dependencies

  - geerlingguy.java
  - geerlingguy.mysql
  - geerlingguy.postgres
  
## Example Playbook

    - hosts: all
      roles:
        - geerlingguy.sonar

Using the defaults, you can view the SonarQube home at `http://localhost:9000/` (default System administrator credentials are `admin`/`admin`).

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2014 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).

Commit message:

Set a variable to configure local database

README.md, after:

# Ansible Role: SonarQube

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/ansible-role-sonar.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/geerlingguy/ansible-role-sonar)

An Ansible Role that installs [SonarQube](http://www.sonarqube.org/) on RedHat/CentOS and Debian/Ubuntu Linux servers.

## Requirements

Requires the `unzip` utility to be installed on the server. Also, different SonarQube versions require different minimum versions of Java:

  - SonarQube 5.0-5.5 requires Java 1.7+
  - SonarQube 5.6+ requires Java 1.8+

Finally, recent versions of SonarQube also require MySQL 5.6 or later.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values:

    workspace: /root

Directory where downloaded files will be temporarily stored.

    sonar_download_validate_certs: true

Controls whether to validate certificates when downloading SonarQube.

    sonar_download_url: https://binaries.sonarsource.com/CommercialDistribution/sonarqube-developer/sonarqube-developer-7.7.zip
    sonar_version_directory: sonarqube-7.7

The URL from which SonarQube will be downloaded, and the resulting directory name (should match the download archive, without the archive extension).

    sonar_web_context: ''

The value of `sonar.web.context`. Setting this to something like `/sonar` allows you to set the context where Sonar can be accessed (e.g. `hostname/sonar` instead of `hostname`).

    sonar_mysql_username: sonar
    sonar_mysql_password: sonar

    sonar_mysql_host: localhost
    sonar_mysql_port: "3306"
    sonar_mysql_database: sonar

    sonar_mysql_allowed_hosts:
      - 127.0.0.1
      - ::1
      - localhost

JDBC settings for a connection to a MySQL database. Defaults presume the database resides on localhost and is only accessible on the SonarQube server itself.

    sonar_psql_username: sonar
    sonar_psql_password: sonar

    sonar_psql_host: localhost
    sonar_psql_port: "5432"
    sonar_psql_database: sonar

JDBC settings for a connection to a PostgreSQL database. Defaults presume the database resides on localhost and is only accessible on the SonarQube server itself.
## Dependencies

  - geerlingguy.java
  - geerlingguy.mysql
  - geerlingguy.postgres

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: all
      roles:
        - geerlingguy.sonar

Using the defaults, you can view the SonarQube home at `http://localhost:9000/` (default System administrator credentials are `admin`/`admin`).

## License

MIT / BSD

## Author Information

This role was created in 2014 by [Jeff Geerling](https://www.jeffgeerling.com/), author of [Ansible for DevOps](https://www.ansiblefordevops.com/).
